# Introduction

One of the best things that modern JavaScript frameworks like Vue allow us to do is break down our websites and applications into manageable components. However, as our sites and apps get bigger and scale, it is easy to fall into certain pitfalls that will make managing your components difficult.

In this course, I will be showing you a variety of best practices and techniques that will help you:

1. Create components that are easier to use and maintain
2. Avoid common mistakes that make components more prone to bugs
3. Feel empowered to make architectural decisions that are best for your app.

In this course, I will be sharing a variety of best practices and techniques for helping you manage your components. However, before we progress any farther, there are three things I need you to understand before you progress through this course.

1. These are guidelines. Not rules.
2. Your opinion and experience matter too.
3. Choose what works best for you and your team.

In other words, if you feel like you have good reason to believe a best practice or technique is not a good fit for your app, then you should trust your instincts and move forward with your solution. Sometimes a technique or best practice that might work well in many contexts can actually be an anti-pattern given another context.

As a result, the important thing is that you understand the potential trade-offs so you can make the best decision possible for your application.

With that said, I look forward to sharing this knowledge with you. See you inside the course!