# Intro to Authentication

In a modern web application, it’s likely that you’ll need to make parts of your app private so that not just anyone on the internet can access everything in your app. But if you want some users to be able to access those restricted parts, this requires implementing some form of user authentication to your app, so that your users can create an account, and later log back into that account, to access your protected content.

In Vue Mastery’s Token-Based Authentication course, we walk through the process of creating a front-end authentication solution for a Vue.js app using [JSON Web Tokens](https://jwt.io/).

While there are many options for authenticating users in a Vue app, we’ve chosen to teach JWT because it offers a straightforward solution that doesn’t rely on any specific third-party services. If you end up using a different option, many of the concepts we are teaching here will still be quite helpful when you need to implement authentication in your app.

---

## How Token-Based Authentication works

Token-based authentication means that our app will allow users to log into it. But we can’t log just anyone in. Our users need to be authenticated, which means when they type their username and password into our app, we’ll send that info to our server so it can authenticate it. If everything is good to go, the user is logged in and the server returns a token.

We then store that token in our browser’s local storage and use it when we need to, such as when we need to make an API call for some private data. At this point, we make a copy of the token we’ve stored, and send it along with our API request. The server then decrypts the token, making sure our user has the proper permission to access the data that’s being requested. If approved, the server sends the requested private data to the client.

Whenever the user logs out, the token is cleared from local storage. We can also set an expiration on the token so it automatically clears after a set amount of time.

---

## How a JWT is Structured

The specific type of tokens we’ll be using are JSON Web Tokens (JWTs). You can think of a JWT like a key that can unlock the parts of your app that are private.

The structure of a JWT consists of three encoded strings: the header, payload and signature. \*\*\*\*Each hashed string is separated by a dot, like so: `xxxxx.yyyyy.zzzzz`.

The **header** is contains the _type_ of token (in our case: JWT) and the hashing algorithm being used.

The **payload** contains the information we are transmitting (usually info about the user) along with some optional “claims” such as who issued the token, its expiration date, and if the user is an admin, etc.

The **signature** is a hash of the header + the payload + the secret. The secret lives on the server and is used to decrypt the token as well as to sign new tokens.

You can read more about the structure of a JWT [here](https://jwt.io/introduction/).

---

## How we’ll use JWT

In this course, we’ll use JWT to build out a front-end authentication solution into a simple Vue app. This means we’ll be creating an interface for users to create an account that they can log in and out of. Both actions of signing up and logging in will provide the user with a token.

When logged in, the user will be able to access a protected route, which is our dashboard. When the dashboard loads, it requests some private data from the server by making an API call that includes a copy of our JWT token.

Upon logging out, we’ll make sure the token is cleared from local storage. Additionally, we’ll learn how to handle authentication errors.

---

## Learning Outcomes

We’ll cover a lot in this course, but we won’t be teaching how to build out the backend. There are many options for this, from Node.js to Rails or PHP, so we’ll let you decide what is the best option for you or your team.

This course focuses on creating a front-end authentication solution that can be paired with your backend of choice. By the end of the course, you’ll understand how to combine JWT with Vue Router, Vuex and Axios to craft a straightforward user authentication interface for your Vue app.