# Lifecycle Hooks

You’re probably familiar with Vue lifecycle hooks, which give us the ability to run code when a component reaches a particular state in execution. Let’s review the typical LifeCycle hooks as you know them:

* **beforeCreate -** Called immediately after instance is initialized, before options are processed.
* **created -** Called after the instance has been created.
* **beforeMount -** Right before mounting of the DOM begins
* **mounted -** Called when the instance has been mounted (browser updated).
* **beforeUpdate -** Called when reactive data has changed, before the DOM is re-rendered.
* **updated -** Called when reactive data has changed, and the DOM has been re-rendered.
* **beforeDestroy -** Called right before the Vue instance is destroyed.
* **destroyed -** Called after the Vue instance has been destroyed.

There are two newer Vue 2 LifeCycle methods you may not be familiar with:

* **activated -** Used for , when a component inside  is toggled on.
* **deactivated -** Used for , when a component inside  is toggled off.
* **errorCaptured -** Called when an error from any descendent component is captured.

For more detailed explanations check out the API documentation on [LifeCycle hooks](https://vuejs.org/v2/api/#Options-Lifecycle-Hooks).

## Unmounting in Vue 3

In Vue 3 `beforeDestroy()` can also be written as `beforeUnmount()`, and `destroyed()` can be written as `unmounted()`. When I asked Evan You about these changes, he mentioned it’s just a better naming conventions, because Vue _mounts_ and _unmounts_ components.

## Composition API LifeCycle Methods

In Vue 3’s Composition API we can create callback hooks inside `setup()` by adding **on** to the LifeCycle method name:

```javascript
import {
  onBeforeMount,
  onMounted,
  onBeforeUpdate,
  onUpdated,
  onBeforeUnmount,
  onUnmounted,
  onActivated,
  onDeactivated,
  onErrorCaptured
} from "vue";

export default {
  setup() {
    onBeforeMount(() => {
      console.log("Before Mount!");
    });
    onMounted(() => {
      console.log("Mounted!");
    });
    onBeforeUpdate(() => {
      console.log("Before Update!");
    });
    onUpdated(() => {
      console.log("Updated!");
    });
    onBeforeUnmount(() => {
      console.log("Before Unmount!");
    });
    onUnmounted(() => {
      console.log("Unmounted!");
    });
    onActivated(() => {
      console.log("Activated!");
    });
    onDeactivated(() => {
      console.log("Deactivated!");
    });
    onErrorCaptured(() => {
      console.log("Error Captured!");
    });
  }
};

```

You might notice that two hooks are missing. `beforeCreate` and `created` are not needed when using the Composition API. This is because `beforeCreate()` is called right before `setup()` and `created()` is called right after `setup()`. Thus, we simply put code inside `setup()` that would normally be in these hooks, such as API calls.

## Two New Vue 3 LifeCycle Methods

There are two more additional watchers coming in Vue 3\. These have not been implemented with the Vue 2 Composition API plugin (as I’m writing this), so you can’t play with them without using Vue 3 source.

* **onRenderTracked** \- called when a reactive dependency is first being accessed in the render function, during render. This dependency will now be tracked. This is helpful to see which dependencies are being tracked, for debugging.
* **onRenderTriggered** \- Called when a new render is triggered, allowing you to inspect what dependency triggered a component to re-render.

I’m excited to see what sort of optimization tools can be created with these two hooks.