# Getting Started

Welcome to Vue Mastery’s Real World Testing course, where we’ll explore what it takes to test a production-level Vue application.

In order to focus exclusively on testing vs building an app from scratch, we’ll be testing the app we’ve been building throughout the Beginner Path here on Vue Mastery. This means you should have already taken the following courses:

* Real World Vue 3
* State Management Fundamentals
* Unit Testing Vue 3

If the code or concepts in this course are confusing or unfamiliar to you, I recommend revisiting this course after you’ve completed the courses that precede it.

### Course Goals

We’ll start by integrating Jest and creating a user-centric Test Plan. Then, we’ll look at refactoring components to become more testable and move on to testing components that use Vue Router and Vuex. We’ll also implement reusable patterns for testing Vuex Stores. Along the way, we’ll gain an understanding of best practices to use so that you can build resilient, meaningful, yet concise, tests.

At the end of this course, you’ll have a well tested, production-grade application.

### Meet your Instructor

So who am I? My name is Jessica Sachs, I’m a Vue Test Utils Maintainer, a tech lead at Cypress, and the architect of Cypress Component Testing. As an Ex-QE, I bring the theory and practices from QA over to Frontend Development. I’m excited to teach this course because writing good tests is an art. Testing is filled with empathy for your users. Determining what to test requires an understanding of your user’s needs, and that can be a difficult concept to teach.

I’m very responsive on Twitter (@\_jessicasachs) or the Vue Land Discord if you have any questions.

In the next lesson, we’ll look at the application we’re going to test from a user’s perspective and build a testing plan. See you there!